README.md, before:

# BlocklyPy Commander for VSCode

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.0-blue.svg)](CHANGELOG.md)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)

A Visual Studio Code extension to interact with LEGO® Hubs running the Pybricks firmware.

## Features

Streamline your Pybricks coding experience with:

- **Connect/disconnect your Hub** via Bluetooth
- **Start/stop programs** directly from VS Code
- **Compile and upload Python scripts** from your workspace
- **View compilation and runtime errors** in your code
- **Auto-connect** to the last used hub
- **Auto-start** your script on save
- **Open and convert** majority of the LEGO robotics file formats
- **Receive program status** and **display hub output messages**

## Getting Started

1. **Install** this extension from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=afarago.blocklypy-vscode).
2. **Connect** your LEGO Hub via Bluetooth.
3. **Open** your Python or LEGO robotics files.
4. **Use** the command palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P`) to access Pybricks commands.

## Supported LEGO File Formats

This extension opens, displays, analyzes, and converts most major LEGO robotics file formats for easy onboarding, backup, and analysis.

### Features for LEGO Files

- Pseudocode representation of block programs
- Graphical preview of block-based code
- Module dependency visualization of code structure
- Convert block code to compatible Pybricks Python code<sup>*</sup>

<sup>*Experimental: Please verify converted code and provide feedback.</sup>

### Platforms & File Types

**SPIKE Prime / Essentials / Robot Inventor:**

SPIKE Prime ([45678](https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/lego-education-spike-prime-set-45678)) and SPIKE Essentials ([45345](https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/lego-education-spike-essential-set-45345)) kit and Robot Inventor ([51515](https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/robot-inventor-51515)) kit for **word-blocks** and **icon-blocks**.

- SPIKE v2 (`.llsp`) and v3 (`.llsp3`)
- Robot Inventor (`.lms`)

**EV3 Mindstorms:**

LEGO® MINDSTORMS® EV3 ([31313](https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/lego-mindstorms-ev3-31313)) **graphical-blocks** and **compiled-binary**.

- EV3 Classroom (`.lmsp`)
- EV3 Lab (`.ev3`)
- EV3 iPad (`.ev3m`)
- EV3 Lab Compiled Binary (`.rbf`)

**Pybricks Python:**

- Pybricks Python (`.py`), supports multiple files.

## Limitations

- Only custom modules in the same folder as the main script are supported
- Package structures and relative imports are **not** currently supported
- Runtime error locations may be inaccurate after changing tabs

## Acknowledgements

This project is rooted on the work of Song-Pei Du [dusongpei](https://github.com/dsp05/pybricks-vscode) and on the work of the [Pybricks authors](https://github.com/pybricks), Laurens Valk and David Lechner.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

<!-- ## Screenshot

![Screenshot](./screenshots/1.gif) -->

Commit message:

feature: adding dark/light icons doc: updated readme and screenshot

README.md, after:

# BlocklyPy Commander for VSCode

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.0-blue.svg)](CHANGELOG.md)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)

A Visual Studio Code extension to interact with LEGO® Hubs running the Pybricks firmware.

## Features

Streamline your Pybricks coding experience with:

- **Connect/disconnect your Hub** via Bluetooth
- **Start/stop programs** directly from VS Code
- **Compile and upload Python scripts** from your workspace
- **View compilation and runtime errors** in your code
- **Auto-connect** to the last used hub
- **Auto-start** your script on save
- **Open and convert** majority of the LEGO robotics file formats
- **Receive program status** and **display hub output messages**

## Getting Started

1. **Install** this extension from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=afarago.blocklypy-vscode).
2. **Connect** your LEGO Hub via Bluetooth.
3. **Open** your Python or LEGO robotics files.
4. **Use** the command palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P`) to access Pybricks commands.

## Supported LEGO File Formats

This extension opens, displays, analyzes, and converts most major LEGO robotics file formats for easy onboarding, backup, and analysis.

### Features for LEGO Files

- Pseudocode representation of block programs
- Graphical preview of block-based code
- Module dependency visualization of code structure
- Convert block code to compatible Pybricks Python code<sup>*</sup>

<sup>*Experimental: Please verify converted code and provide feedback.</sup>

### Platforms & File Types

**SPIKE Prime / Essentials / Robot Inventor:**

SPIKE Prime ([45678](https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/lego-education-spike-prime-set-45678)) and SPIKE Essentials ([45345](https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/lego-education-spike-essential-set-45345)) kit and Robot Inventor ([51515](https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/robot-inventor-51515)) kit for **word-blocks** and **icon-blocks**.

- SPIKE v2 (`.llsp`) and v3 (`.llsp3`)
- Robot Inventor (`.lms`)

**EV3 Mindstorms:**

LEGO® MINDSTORMS® EV3 ([31313](https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/lego-mindstorms-ev3-31313)) **graphical-blocks** and **compiled-binary**.

- EV3 Classroom (`.lmsp`)
- EV3 Lab (`.ev3`)
- EV3 iPad (`.ev3m`)
- EV3 Lab Compiled Binary (`.rbf`)

**Pybricks Python:**

- Pybricks Python (`.py`), supports multiple files.

## Limitations

- Only custom modules in the same folder as the main script are supported
- Package structures and relative imports are **not** currently supported
- Runtime error locations may be inaccurate after changing tabs

## Guide: Fun First Things to Explore

- **Connect** to a SPIKE Pybricks Hub via Bluetooth
- **Reconnect** to the last Pybricks Hub via Bluetooth
- Check out the **auto-connect** to the last Pybricks Hub via Bluetooth on VSCode start
- Open a **Pybricks Python file**, compile and upload
- Use the **auto-start** feature by adding `# LEGO autostart` header
- Check the feedback for any **runtime error** reported by the hub
- Check the feedback from any **print statements** reported by the hub
- **Use imports** from other local python modules
- Open a **depedency graph** to explore the project call dependencies
- Open a **SPIKE hub version 3 or version 2** file to check the blockly preview
- Explore **pseudocode** to see a simplified text representation of the SPIKE code
- Check the **converted Pybricks Python** code, compile and run it directly
- Observe the **dependency call graph** for the SPIKE file
- Make changes on the SPIKE source file in the LEGO app, and **see instant updates**
- Open a **Robot Inventor MINDSTORMS App file** and check the above features
- Open a **SPIKE Essential Iconblocks file** and check the above features
- Open an **EV3 classic EV3-G file** and check the pseudocode and graph features
- Check the converted python code for the EV3G file; compile and run it
- Download a **compiled and running binary (.rbf) file** from your EV3 hub and check the pseudocode, python code and graph features
- Open an **EV3 iPad file** and check the pseudocode, python and graph features
- Open an **EV3 classroom file** and check the pseudocode, python and graph features
- Open a **WeDo 2.0 file** and check the pseudocode and python features

## Acknowledgements

This project is rooted on the work of Song-Pei Du [dusongpei](https://github.com/dsp05/pybricks-vscode) and on the work of the [Pybricks authors](https://github.com/pybricks), Laurens Valk and David Lechner.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Screenshot

![Screenshot](./screenshots/1.gif)
